              Save the readings in the file in binary form. Each reading is in
              a separate record. The default value of the  filename  parameter
              is  the  current daily data file, the /var/log/sa/sadd file.该
              -o option is exclusive of the -f option.  All the data available
              from  the  kernel  are saved in the file (in fact, sar calls its
              data collector sadc with the option "-S ALL". See sadc(8) manual
              page).

       -P { cpu [,...] |所有}
              Report  per-processor  statistics for the specified processor or
              processors.  Specifying the ALL keyword reports  statistics  for
              each  individual  processor,  and  globally  for all processors.
              Note that processor 0 is the first processor.

       -p     Pretty-print device names. Use this option in  conjunction  with
              option  -d.  By default names are printed as dev m-n where m and
              n are the major and minor numbers for the device.  Use  of  this
              option displays the names of the devices as they (should) appear
              in /dev. Name mappings  are  controlled  by  /etc/sysconfig/sys‐
              stat.ioconf.

       -q     Report  queue length and load averages. The following values are
              displayed:

              runq-sz
                     Run queue length (number of tasks waiting for run time).

              plist-sz
                     Number of tasks in the task list.

              ldavg-1
                     System load average for the last minute.  The load  aver‐
                     age  is  calculated  as the average number of runnable or
                     running tasks (R state), and the number of tasks in unin‐
                     terruptible sleep (D state) over the specified interval.

              ldavg-5
                     System load average for the past 5 minutes.

              ldavg-15
                     System load average for the past 15 minutes.

              受阻
                     Number  of  tasks  currently  blocked, waiting for I/O to
                     complete.

       -R     Report memory statistics. The following values are displayed:

              frmpg/s
                     Number of memory pages freed by the system per second.一个
                     negative  value represents a number of pages allocated by
                     the system.  Note that a page has a size of 4 kB or 8  kB
                     according to the machine architecture.

              bufpg/s
                     Number  of additional memory pages used as buffers by the
                     system per second.  A negative value  means  fewer  pages
                     used as buffers by the system.

              campg/s
                     Number  of  additional  memory pages cached by the system
                     每秒。 A negative value means fewer  pages  in  the
                     cache.

       -r     Report  memory utilization statistics.  The following values are
              displayed:

              kbmemfree
                     Amount of free memory available in kilobytes.

              kbmemused
                     Amount of used memory in kilobytes. This  does  not  take
                     into account memory used by the kernel itself.

              %memused
                     Percentage of used memory.

              kbbuffers
                     Amount  of  memory used as buffers by the kernel in kilo‐
                     字节。

              kbcached
                     Amount of memory used to cache  data  by  the  kernel  in
                     kilobytes.

              kbcommit
                     Amount  of  memory  in kilobytes needed for current work‐
                     load. This is an estimate of how much RAM/swap is  needed
                     to guarantee that there never is out of memory.

              %commit
                     Percentage of memory needed for current workload in rela‐
                     tion to the total amount of memory (RAM+swap).  This num‐
                     ber  may  be greater than 100% because the kernel usually
                     overcommits memory.

              kbactive
                     Amount of active memory in  kilobytes  (memory  that  has
                     been  used more recently and usually not reclaimed unless
                     absolutely necessary).

              kbinact
                     Amount of inactive memory in kilobytes (memory which  has
                     been  less  recently  used.  It  is  more  eligible to be
                     reclaimed for other purposes).

              kbdirty
                     Amount of memory in kilobytes waiting to get written back
                     to the disk.

       -S     Report  swap space utilization statistics.  The following values
              are displayed:

              kbswpfree
                     Amount of free swap space in kilobytes.

              kbswpused
                     Amount of used swap space in kilobytes.

              %swpused
                     Percentage of used swap space.

              kbswpcad
                     Amount of cached swap memory in kilobytes.  This is  mem‐
                     ory  that  once  was  swapped out, is swapped back in but
                     still also is in the swap area (if memory  is  needed  it
                     doesn't  need  to  be  swapped  out  again  because it is
                     already in the swap area. This saves I/O).

              %swpcad
                     Percentage of cached  swap  memory  in  relation  to  the
                     amount of used swap space.

       -s [ hh:mm:ss ]
              Set  the  starting  time of the data, causing the sar command to
              extract records time-tagged at, or following,  the  time  speci‐
              fied.  The  default  starting  time  is 08:00:00.  Hours must be
              given in 24-hour format. This option can be used only when  data
              are read from a file (option -f ).

       -t     When  reading  data  from  a  daily data file, indicate that sar
              should display the timestamps in the original local time of  the
              data file creator. Without this option, the sar command displays
              the timestamps in the user's locale time.

       -u [ ALL ]
              Report CPU utilization. The ALL keyword indicates that  all  the
              CPU fields should be displayed.  The report may show the follow‐
              ing fields:

              ％用户
                     Percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while execut‐
                     ing at the user level (application). Note that this field
                     includes time spent running virtual processors.

              %usr
                     Percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while execut‐
                     ing at the user level (application). Note that this field
                     does NOT include time spent running virtual processors.

              ％不错
                     Percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while execut‐
                     ing at the user level with nice priority.

              ％系统
                     Percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while execut‐
                     ing at the system level (kernel). Note  that  this  field
                     includes  time  spent  servicing  hardware  and  software
                     interrupts.

              %sys
                     Percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while execut‐
                     ing  at  the  system level (kernel). Note that this field
                     does NOT include time spent servicing hardware  or  soft‐
                     ware interrupts.

              IOWAIT％
                     Percentage  of time that the CPU or CPUs were idle during
                     which the system had an outstanding disk I/O request.

              ％偷
                     Percentage of time spent in involuntary wait by the  vir‐
                     tual  CPU  or  CPUs  while  the  hypervisor was servicing
                     another virtual processor.

              %irq
                     Percentage of time spent by the CPU or  CPUs  to  service
                     hardware interrupts.

              %soft
                     Percentage  of  time  spent by the CPU or CPUs to service
                     software interrupts.

              %guest
                     Percentage of time spent by the CPU or CPUs to run a vir‐
                     tual processor.

              %gnice
                     Percentage  of  time  spent  by  the CPU or CPUs to run a
                     niced guest.

              ％闲
                     Percentage of time that the CPU or CPUs were idle and the
                     system did not have an outstanding disk I/O request.

              Note:  On SMP machines a processor that does not have any activ‐
              ity at all (0.00 for every field) is a disabled  (offline)  pro‐
              cessor.

       -V打印版本号然后退出。

       -v     Report  status of inode, file and other kernel tables.  The fol‐
              lowing values are displayed:

              dentunusd
                     Number of unused cache entries in the directory cache.

              file-nr
                     Number of file handles used by the system.

              inode-nr
                     Number of inode handlers used by the system.

              pty-nr
                     Number of pseudo-terminals used by the system.

       -W     Report swapping statistics. The following values are displayed:

              pswpin/s
                     Total number of swap pages the system brought in per sec‐
                     ond.

              pswpout/s
                     Total  number  of  swap  pages the system brought out per
                     second.

       -w     Report task creation and system switching activity.

              proc/s
                     Total number of tasks created per second.

              cswch/s
                     Total number of context switches per second.

       -y     Report TTY device activity. The following values are displayed:

              rcvin/s
                     Number of  receive  interrupts  per  second  for  current
                     serial  line. Serial line number is given in the TTY col‐
                     umn.

              xmtin/s
                     Number of transmit  interrupts  per  second  for  current
                     serial line.

              framerr/s
                     Number  of  frame  errors  per  second for current serial
                     line.

              prtyerr/s
                     Number of parity errors per  second  for  current  serial
                     line.

              brk/s
                     Number of breaks per second for current serial line.

              ovrun/s
                     Number  of  overrun  errors per second for current serial
                     line.


环境
       The sar command takes into account the following environment variables:


       S_TIME_FORMAT
              如果此变量存在且其值为ISO，则为当前值
              在报表中打印日期时，将忽略区域设置
              头。 The sar command will use the ISO 8601 format  (YYYY-MM-
              DD) instead.


       S_TIME_DEF_TIME
              If  this variable exists and its value is UTC then sar will save
              its data in UTC time (data will  still  be  displayed  in  local
              time).   sar  will  also  use  UTC time instead of local time to
              determine the current daily data file located in the /var/log/sa
              directory.  This  variable  may be useful for servers with users
              located across several timezones.

例子
       sar -u 2 5
              Report CPU utilization for each 2  seconds.  5  lines  are  dis‐
              played.

       sar -I 14 -o int14.file 2 10
              Report  statistics  on  IRQ  14 for each 2 seconds. 10 lines are
              显示。 Data are stored in a file called int14.file.

       sar -r -n DEV -f /var/log/sa/sa16
              Display memory and network statistics saved in daily  data  file
              'sa16'.

       sar -A
              Display all the statistics saved in current daily data file.

BUGS
       /proc filesystem must be mounted for the sar command to work.

       All the statistics are not necessarily available, depending on the ker‐
       nel version used.  sar assumes that you are using at least a  2.6  ker‐
       NEL。

FILES
       /var/log/sa/sadd
              Indicate the daily data file, where the dd parameter is a number
              representing the day of the month.

       /proc contains various files with system statistics.

作者
       Sebastien Godard（sysstat <at> orange.fr）

也可以看看
       sadc(8), sa1(8), sa2(8),  sadf(1),  pidstat(1),  mpstat(1),  iostat(1),
       vmstat(8)

       http://pagesperso-orange.fr/sebastien.godard/



Linux                           SEPTEMBER 2012                          SAR(1)
